     declare [ arg ... ]
          Same as typeset.
     functions [ +-tu ] [ name ... ]
          Equivalent to typeset -f.
     integer
          Same as typeset -i.
     local
          Same as typeset.
     typeset [ +-LRZfilrtux [n]] [ name[=value] ] ...
          Set attributes and values for shell  parameters.   When
          invoked  inside  a  function,  if  name  is not already
          defined, a new parameter is created which will be unset
          when  the function completes.  The following attributes
          are valid:
          -L   Left justify and remove leading blanks from value.
               If  n  is  nonzero,  it  defines  the width of the
               field; otherwise it is determined by the width  of
               the  value  of  the  first  assignment.   When the
               parameter is printed, it is filled  on  the  right
               with  blanks  or truncated if necessary to fit the
               field.  Leading zeros are removed if the  -Z  flag
               is also set.
          -R   Right justify and fill with leading blanks.  If  n
               is nonzero if defines the width of the field; oth-
               erwise it is determined by the width of the  value
               of  the  first  assignment.  When the parameter is
               printed, the field is left filled with  blanks  or
               truncated from the end.
          -Z   Right justify and fill with leading zeros  if  the
               first  non-blank  character  is a digit and the -L
               flag has not been set.  If n is nonzero it defines
               the width of the field; otherwise it is determined
               by the width of the value of the first assignment.
          -f   The names refer to functions rather  than  parame-
               ters.   No  assignments  can be made, and the only
               other valid flags are -t  and  -u.   The  flag  -t
               turns on execution tracing for this function.  The
               flag -u causes this  function  to  be  marked  for
               autoloading.  The fpath parameter will be searched
               to find the function definition when the  function
               is first referenced.
          -i   Use an internal integer representation.  If  i  is
               nonzero  it  defines  the  output arithmetic base,
               otherwise it is determined by  the  first  assign-
               ment.
          -l   Convert to lower case.
          -r   The given names are marked readonly.
          -t   Tags the named parameters.  Tags have  no  special
               meaning to the shell.
          -u   Convert to upper case.
          -x   Mark for automatic export to  the  environment  of
               subsequently executed commands.

     Using + rather than - causes these flags to be  turned  off.
     If no arguments are given but flags are specified, a list of
     named parameters which have  these  flags  set  is  printed.
     Using  + instead of - keeps their values from being printed.
     If no arguments or options are given, the names  and  attri-
     butes of all parameters are printed.
