This version of uucp is backward compatible with the 4.2BSD version.
It has several new features:

    CONFIG
    	Most parameters to operations are run-time configurable
    	in the file named "/etc/uucp/CONFIG". See uuparams(5)
    	for more details.

    SPOOLALTDIRS
    	This parameter specifies extra spooling directories for
    	uucp programs (the default is SPOOLDIR "/var/spool/uucp").
    	The programs that search for something to do look in all
    	these directories in turn. In particular, uucico will find
    	work files there, though it will return to SPOOLDIR at
    	least every "turntime" seconds ("-t" parameter, default
    	DEFAULT_CICO_TURN).

    ".active"
    	This file is created by uucico in the directory it is
    	currently operating from, and contains an ASCII representation
    	of the PID and machine name.

    "ps" listing
    	uucico changes its name to give details of state. The state
    	shows the remote nodename, the role (MST/SLV), the direction
    	of transfer (SND/RCV), the number of messages transferred,
    	and the overall throughput in bytes/sec.

    "uusched"
    	This is a new program that scans the L.sys file for nodes to be
    	polled. It checks that the selected node has jobs to send,
    	or hasn't been called for a while, and starts a uucico for
    	that node, waiting for it to finish. See uusched(8) for details. 

    "L.sys"
    	Site entries can now have protocol, packet size, and debugging
    	turned on at call time. There is also an optional entry for sites
    	that call in - SLAVE - that can be used to specify message grades
    	and other parameters based on login times.

    Variable sized packet support
    	Most older versions of uucico request 64-byte packets,
    	and cannot handle receiving variable-sized packets.
    	If a remote uucico requests a packet size other than 64,
    	or a packet size other than 64 is set by L.sys parameters
    	for a site, then variable-sized packets are used which
    	will result in more efficient use of the bandwidth.

    'G' protocol
    	Support for this protocol is included, but needs to be tested.
    	It assumes (after an initial test) that 'G' can't handle size
    	negotiation, or variable packet sizes, just fixed-size packets
    	in the range 32-4096 bytes.

    Time-stamped audit logs
    	When one needs to trace through multiple uucico sessions,
    	time-stamped audit log files can be created so that they
    	are not overwritten by successive connections.
