This file contains a list of bugs to fix and minor feature changes
needed in the Tk toolkit.  The list is ordered by the time when the
idea for the change first arose;  no priority should be inferred from
the order.

6. Fill in default argument table in tkArgv.c, and document it.

8. Change Tk_Uid stuff so that there's a fast way to tell if a
string is really a Tk_Uid.

10. Write procedure to translate from a string to a Pixmap.

26. Extend "configure" widget command to output the type of the
option (string, color, etc.)?  Or should this be done with the class
field?

28. Need mechanism to change the name of a top-level window.

30. Make "." a frame widget in wish?

47. Add new "option" subcommands to (a) query whole database or
(b) query all the option patterns that match for a particular option
(i.e. don't just return the one that will actually be used).

50. In error-handling code, ignore BadWindow errors if they occur
for a seemingly-legitimate Tk window.

63. Provide way to determine "type" of window (i.e. command under which
it was created) rather than current class?

68. Write manual entries for new exported binding procedures.

75. Change Tk_Uid typedef to prevent confusion with (char *)?

76. Change listbox selection handling to return multiple items separated
by newlines rather than as a Tcl list?

81. For check and radio buttons, change "command" config to separate
commands invoked when button becomes selected/deselected?

86. Change "tkVersion" variable to "tk_version" for consistency.

89. Eliminate hard-wired behavior for scales and scrollbars:  use class
bindings instead.

92. Add mechanism for interposing constraints in geometry management,
e.g. to allow a collection of buttons to all request same width (for
tables) or to provide a generic mechanism for padding widgets internally.

93. Add way to find out which geometry manager "owns" a particular
window.  Also, Tk_SetInternalBorder isn't notify geometry managers
correctly (it assumes that slaves are children).  Also, it would be
nice to have a callback to notify a geometry manager if one of its
slaves is taken away from it by another geometry manager.

98. Add Tk command to compute the bbox of a given text string in a given
font?

100. Extend scrollbar "set" command so that arrow increment can be set
explicitly.  Or, change scrollbar interface completely so that the
scrollbar only gets two numbers giving slider position, and sends
commands of the form "foo scroll up1" or "foo scroll upScreen".

101. Eliminate TK_DONT_WAIT option to Tk_DoOneEvent.

103. Get image displaying widget from Paul Mackerras (paulus@cs.anu.edu.au)
and incorporate into Tk.

105. Eliminate the "activate" and "deactivate" commands for buttons
and menu buttons.

106. Add feature to buttons for automatic defaulting, where button
allocates extra space for default ring.

107. Eliminate the "disable" and "enable" commands for menus.

108. Change Tk_GetAtomName to return NULL instead of "?bad atom?".

110. Extend bitmaps to allow direct specification (#0xffff ...)

114. Change default so that windows are normally resizable?

115. Change Tk_GetSelection to look in the cut buffer if no selection
can be found.

117. Implement a mechanism for retrieving just the value of a configuration
option, without all the other stuff (name, default, etc.).  Perhaps
a "cvalue" widget command?

124. Remove "-geometry" option from all widgets, and use "-width" and
"-height" instead.

128. Scroll windows when selecting off edge of window (do for listboxes,
entries, and text)?

129. Add keyboard traversal to text and listboxes.

131. Should new characters in text widget get tags of character they
precede or character they follow (currently it's "follow")?  Or neither?

132. Extend "option" command to make it possible to retrieve the original
resource pattern specs.

134. Allow upper-left character in text not to be the first character
of a line: otherwise, with very long line and small window, won't be
able to view the end of a line.

136. Implement mechanism for using existing window as main window for
application, support with command-line argument in wish.

137. Modify default bindings so that they can handle multiple mice working
simultaneously on different displays (right now there is a single variable
that keeps track of the active window, for example).

138. Add packer option not to set requested geometry for parent window?

139. Change canvas Postscript generation to be smarter about font names
that have been abbreviated:  use X to look up the full name.

140. Canvas Postscript isn't stippling text like it should:  the code
seems not to have been written at all.

141. Change "send" code to be cleverer about reclaiming names of dead
interpreters.  E.g. check for duplicate window names in the registry
or check for a unique-id property on the commWindow.

142. Need to add "-displayfor" option to the following commands:
focus, selection, send.

143. There are tricky issues about send and multiple displays.  Does
some name get registered for a top-level window on a new display?  If
so, how to deal with multiple different names for application?  If not,
can this window be sent to by other applications on its display?

144. In text widgets, if you backspace over a newline, the caret sometimes
leaves garbage at the left edge of its previous (lower) line.

145. Incorporate Mark Diekhans' "addinput" or something like it.

146. Change main.c to use "name" to set the class, instead of Tk.

147. Add "window" entry to menus.

148. Add an "initProc" and a "freeProc" to TK_CONFIG_CUSTOM config types.

149. Remove Tcl_PrintDouble override macro in tkInt.h.

150. In SYNONYM options, specify a command-line switch for the other
option, not a database name.

151. Rename "pack newinfo" to "pack info".

152. Make canvas window items restack in response to canvase "raise"
and "lower" commands.

153. Some fonts (e.g. Times) have underline characters that extend
*below* the official descent of the font.  Right now the underline
is invisible for these fonts in text widgets.  Find a way to make
this work in text?

154. Eliminate "geometry" variable from tkMain.c.

155. Change all bindings to ignore extra modifiers by default?  This
seems to be right more often than it's wrong.

156. Eliminate "alwaysRedraw" for canvases and add an undisplayProc
instead.

157. Change "selection get APPLICATION" to "selection get TK_APPLICATION"?
Same for WINDOW?
