				Instructions
				------------

		        Last Update: $Date: 1994/01/14 00:51:50 $


	This file contains instructions on how to create and install
the entire ELM mail system.  It should be read BEFORE any attempts
are made at actually creating and/or installing any of the software
contained herein!

	There is actually really one step needed - unpack all the shar
files and then;

	$ cd <where-ever you're keeping the Elm sources>

	$ sh Configure

	Answer the questions of that program, then let it create the
localized Makefiles and system definition files for you.  When it's
done you can double check the configuration (or customize it further)
by reading the Configuration Guide and then rerunning Configure.
There are lots of neat features that are unique to this mailer - it's
worth a quick perusal at least!

	Once you're happy with the localized files, you then need to
create the documentation (so there's a bit of a catch-22 that you need
to format the Configuration guide before you are happy with the
localization but can't do that until you're happy with the
localization...oh well).

	$

	$ make documentation

    When that's done, or even if it fails (don't worry too much about
it), do the following:

	$ make all > MAKELOG 2>&1 &
	$ tail -f MAKELOG

    (if you're in "csh", substitute: "make all >& MAKELOG &")

This will take a fair while, so it's recommended that you go and eat 
lunch or play a game for a while!! (alternatively, spend lots of money
on a really FAST machine and blink your eyes a few times...)

Assuming there are no errors during compilation (we'll have to assume
that for the moment) you should now be able to list the directory "bin"
and find the following files:

  answer        checkalias     filter         messages      printmail
  arepdaemon    elm            frm            newalias      readmsg
  autoreply     fastmail       listalias      newmail

next, you can install all the software on your system by;

	$ make install
	
Note: On some systems the mailer runs as setgid mail to have the
ability to WRITE to the mail directory (for lock files).  If this is
true, you will have to be root to install Elm (or some other user that
can have the makefile set the setgid bit on the required executables).
If you have a different scheme at your site, feel free to set it up to
use that instead.

Finally, we're just about done!   The final checks can be made
by the following commands:

	$ elm -z

should say "no mail" if nothing's in your incoming mailbox or should
start up the Elm program if there is, and

	$ elm -f test/test.mail

should read in EIGHT messages from various people.  While here, try to
A)lias, A)lias current message for each of the eight messages to
confirm that the reply/address system is working okay.  Now Q)uit
without having marked anything for deletion...answer the questions
accordingly.

If you get this far you're in wonderful shape!  In fact, you're done!

Congratulations!  You've just installed one of the best electronic mail
systems available today on your machine (if I say so myself!)

IF UPGRADING FROM AN EARLIER VERSION OF ELM, even 2.4 beta, it will
be necessary for all users alias files, as well as the systems alias
file, be upgraded to the new format.  Also some error checking of
alias files has been added.  All users should run the newalias command.

HANDY HINTS:  If you want to create a print of the entire set of
sources, including this file, use the command:

	$ make listing

Also, if you have a number of machines on a network, you can rlogin
to the remote machine and then do a remote install (after checking
to ensure that the networking copy method in the Makefile under the
target "remote-install" is correct) by typing:

	$ make -f <remote Makefile> REMOTE=<remote file system> rmt-install

(for example, if we had installed the system on machine "machx" and 
 wanted to install it on "machy", with the Makefile in /src/Elm on
 "machx", we could type from "machy";
	 $ make -f machx:/src/Elm/Makefile REMOTE=machx: rmt-install
 to have it install the system on machine y!)

That's it!
----------

  This document and the entire mail system is

	(C) Copyright 1988-1992 by the Usenet Community Trust
	(C) Copyright 1986,1987 by Dave Taylor

Elm is now in the public trust.  Bug reports, comments, suggestions,
etc. should be sent to:

	Elm group's address:	elm@DSI.COM
				dsinc!elm

	Mail address:		Syd Weinstein
				Datacomp Systems, Inc.
				3837 Byron Road
				Huntingdon Valley, PA 19006-2320
