$Id: README,v 1.1.1.1 1993/02/10 18:05:35 sanders Exp $

README for nenscript version 1.12
Craig Southeren 20-August-1992
---------------------------------

This directory contains the sources for nenscript, a clone of the
proprietary enscript program from Adobe Systems. For those who have
never used enscript, it is a good ASCII to Postscript converter. 

nenscript was written by me over a period of several months whilst
I was working at Computer Sciences of Australia as a contractor. 
As a regular net-watcher, I saw that several people had (over the
years) asked for a public domain version of enscript. Seeing as I
had got tons of useful stuff off the net, I though this looked like
a good opportunity to pay back the net community. So I convinced
my manager that this would be a Good Thing.

The main features of enscript/nenscript are:

	. produces Postscript output which fully conforms to
	  the Document Structuring Conventions
	. support for normal and "gaudy" output
	. support for single or double column output
	. allows insertion of titles and headers in any font.
	. multiple copies of a document

Features additional to nenscript are:
	. automatic wrapping of long lines
	. availability under MSDOS 
	. executable is self contained - no additional files required

The main feature that is NOT supported by nenscript is the ability
to use fonts other than Courier for text output. This would require
access to full font tables which I don't have have.

nenscript has been extensively used for over six months on a Sun-3/Sun-4
network with over 50 users. No major problems are currently outstanding.
This version is identical with the addition of support for MSDOS.

Installation
------------

For Unix:
	The makefile provided will install nenscript in /usr/local/bin, with
	the man page in /usr/local/man/man1. It selects the date to be in
	US format (i.e. MM DD YY) via the US_DATE define.

For MSDOS:
	A .MAK file is provided that operate with Microsoft QuickC for Windows
	version 1. The makefile.msc works with Microsoft C version 7
	

Features I would like to add:
-----------------------------

Please send me your suggestions. I can't guarantee that I will do anything
about themm but if you don't tell me, I definitely won't!!!

1. Support for the ISO-Latin character set. At the moment, characters are
   just sent down to the printer.

2. Binary file detection. enscript attempts to detect binary files and will
   will reject them (unless forced to print)

3. Display of control characters. Control characters other than ^L (page
   break), ^I (tab) and newline are not trapped.

4. Only A4 size paper is currently supported, but it wouldn;t be very
   difficult to add other paper sizes to defs.h. If only I new what was
   wanted.....


If you want to modify nenscript...
----------------------------------

All of the definitions which might want to be changed are in defs.h.
Using this file, you can change the papaer size, default printer, 
environment variable names, etc. If you want to hack the code, best
of luck!! nenscript started off as a quick hack to fix an immediate
problem (don't all programs??) and I made the mistake of making
is visible to management who immediately made it public. So I make no 
apologies for lack of comments etc. 

