Copyright (c) 1992 BSDI, All rights reserved

       This file briefly describes new RUNDOS version


       1.  What is unsupported?
         1.  No communication ports support
         2.  No tools for floppy formatting

       2.  What's new
         1.  Printer  port  support  - both at "hardware" level and
             through INT17
         2.  All menu items now work correctly and  one  more  item
             added

       3.  Menu
       Menu  is activated by pressing <CTRL><ALT><DEL> and contains
       following items:
         1.  Suspend - suspend RUNDOS
         2.  Flush printer buffer - asynchronous lpr execution  for
             printer buffers flushing
         3.  Timer mode - timer mode selection
         4.  Restart  -  restart  RUNDOS (it's not the same as quit
             and enter RUNDOS)
         5.  Quit - quit RUNDOS
       In this release there are several  keys  combinations  which
       may  be  used  for  debugging. In particular <CTRL><ALT<Gray
       DEL> quits RUNDOS without entering menu.
       Several error messages are accompanied by  menu.  For  exam-
       ple,  after  error  message "Writing to printer - ERROR" you
       may try to  restart  RUNDOS  or  just  quit  menu.  "Invalid
       opcode"  means  internal  RUNDOS  error (second-to- the-last
       error :-).
       If some sophisticated graphics mode is being  used  entering
       and  leaving menu may corrupt screen. In many cases you only
       have to restart RUNDOS.

       4.  Timer modes
       These modes mainly affect sound generation. If  you  believe
       that  your  program generates incorrect sounds try to change
       time mode (No. 2 is especially useful).
         T0 timer interrupts are not pending and all  extra  inter-
            rupts  which  are  received  while another interrupt is
            processed are discarded (default mode).
         T1 all interrupts are put in queue and  are  processed  in
            turn.  Some  programs  which  use  music  and animation
            require this mode. Use only when needed (e.g, for  slow
            replay).   This  mode may affect execution of some pro-
            grams (they will  execute very slow) and may result  in
            stack overflow.
         T2 turn sound on/off
       Some  programs  using timer (e.g., flight simulator AFT) may
       not work correctly due to errors in timer count  processing.
       Program restart usually helps.

       5.  Printing
       Printer  device  assignment  is  done  in start-up file con-
       fig.rundos by following command:

       assing lptN name

       where N - port number, <name> may be either name of  regular
       or  special file (output is redirected to this file) or key-
       word "spool" (output is redirected to a temporary  file  and
       may be printed later through menu).

       6.  Disks
       Disk assignment command:

       assign flop[1|2]]|[hard[1|2] file_name number

       where   <file_name>   is   either   character   device  name
       (/dev/rxxx) or regular file, <Number> is either disk size in
       Kb (for floppies - 360, 1200, 720, 1440) or winchester type.
       Currently only one type 1  is implemented  -   306  cyls,  4
       heads, 17 sectors/track).
       As  partition  table must always exist currently there is no
       means to create a file system in empty file  by  FDISK  pro-
       gram.  New  file  system  in empty file can be created using
       Disk Manager (we use Version 4.0). Another way - take  first
       512 bytes from existing pseudo- disk.

       7.  Start-up file
       Currently  only  three commands are recognized: assign - for
       device assignment, and kernemul and logfile - for debugging.

       8.  Miscellaneous
       We recommend to put

       STACK=20,256

       in  CONFIG.SYS,  but  it  may  result in DOS error "Internal
       stack overflow".  In this case

       STACK=0,0

       may help

       Programs may seem silent for fairly  long  period  of  time.
       This  doesn't  mean that the program is hanging, just device
       ports are being polled and as emulation  speed  is  signifi-
       cantly  lower  than  actual speed of IN and OUT instructions
       you may see this behavior.
       DOS is booted as usual, first it tries disk A:, then C:.

       As we now always use hardware VGA BIOS file firstpage must be
       be created by getfirstpage program.






















